economics ( Bearbeiten ) The viability of a Windenergienutzung by wind farms depends on the parameters medium wind speed in Nabenhöhe , Stromverkaufspreis , installations - and infrastructure costs . 
in most countries today are also economically use inland sites . 
Abhängig of these factors vary the Stromgestehungskosten and , according to a study published in May 2012 for the Fraunhofer-Institut Solare energy systems between 6 and 8 ct\/kWh ct\/kWh for installations on land . 
the competitiveness of Onshore-Windkraftanlagen compared with conventional power plants is thus according to the study of good locations already ( state 2012 ) achieved . 
Offshore-Anlagen are against it , owing to higher finance operating costs - and despite more Volllaststunden significantly more expensive , their Stromgestehungskosten are currently in 12-16 ct\/kWh . 
( 7 ) environmentalists argue , wind power , if all the external costs of energy production ( including the environmental damage caused by pollutants ) , for example , be included alongside the hydroelectric power , one of the most favourable energy sources . 
( 8 ) However were in Germany , for example , in 2011 by renewables energies overall ca . 
9.1 billion euros to save external costs . 
( 9 ) Since the measurement of external costs and benefits , however , not because of various methodologies to quantify is clearly came older studies with data is not new than 2004 to other results . 
( 10 ) price of electricity ( Bearbeiten ) The wind power as a renewable energy contributes to the Merit-Order-Effekt in , and lowers at least in the short term by the displacement of conventional power stations electricity prices . 
The Merit-Order-Effekt not , however , take into account the long term changes in the composition of the power stations , so that sustainable impact in terms of the price of electricity by the said effect can be determined exactly . 
Will to windstarken days much from Windenenergie understandable , fed into the wholesale prices falling in the electricity exchanges . 
there is little wind power , a rise in the price of electricity exchanges . 
The Strompreissenkung by wind power is caused by the legal Abnahmepflicht for were produced . 
Is much electricity from wind power available , will the use of expensive conventional power stations , especially gas power ( ‘ Grenzkosten-Theorie reduces `` ) , leading to a fall in prices leads to the electricity exchanges . 
( 11 ) ( 12 ) ( 13 ) ( 14 ) One further reason lies in the Strompreisexplosion . 
On 2 . 
quarter of 2008 costs electricity to the Leipzig electricity exchanges in the funds 8,495 ct\/kWh . 
The Einspeisetarif for wind power in Austria stands at 7.8 ct\/kWh . 
( 15 ) 2011 , the Anfangsvergütung for wind energy in Germany after EEC 9.2 ct\/kWh . 
