applications ( Bearbeiten ) Windmühle Kite-Surfen besides to history : history of Windenergienutzung The wind will for thousands of people for its use . 
it was the first to use of the wind to transport with Segelschiffen ( see also : sails ) or smoke , on the other hand , the wind power to perform mechanical work with the help of windmills and water pumps used . 
After the discovery of the electricity and the invention of generator was the idea of the use of wind power for electricity generation close . 
Anfänglich were the concepts of windmills only C onvention worked and instead of the implementation of the kinetischen energy of the wind in mechanical energy was on a generator of electrical energy produced . 
With the development of Strömungsmechanik were also the Aufbauten and Flügelformen specialised . 
since the oil crises in the 1970s , the world will be strengthened for alternatives to produce energy research and so that has also been promoted the development of modern windmills . 
( 2 ) electricity production ( Bearbeiten ) General ( Bearbeiten ) wind farms in Denmark modernity windmills in Bavaria besides → : windmills and windfarm The wind blowing because of the sun daytime mostly stronger than at night and thus fits in a natural way the day higher energy needs . 
in a similar way is often the production in the winter of greater than in the summer of what is also favourable . 
can wind farms in all climates , at sea and in all Landformen ( coast , interior , mountains ) to generate electricity used . 
2009 researchers identified the Harvard-Universität under conservative assumptions the global Windenergiepotential and came to the conclusion that there is simply no longer apposite : far exceeds the : the then need of electrical energy at the 40-fache , the total 5-fache about this . 
( 3 ) A study of the Max-Planck-Instituts for Biogeochemie to the associated Klimafolgen revealed that some of the simply no longer apposite : can be removed from the wind , without a significant Klimabeeinflussung . 
( 4 ) Due to the Unstetigkeit of the wind can the with wind farms electrical energy produced only in conjunction with other energy sources or with storage ( Windgas ) for a continuous source actually be used . 
( Siehe also Regelenergie ) By forecast of supply and exchange within and between the transmission networks ( Regelzonen ) , the erratic electricity produced in cooperation with other power stations such as the normal Verbrauchsschwankungen be compensated . 
For Germany is one according to a study of the DENA currently from 20 to 25 % maximum share the only moderate expansion of network infrastructure . 
Another possibilities , in future the Windstrompenetration on such a value , to increase , are : \* strengthening and Vermaschung of Hochspannungsübertragungsnetzes with neighbouring Regelzonen on moderate development also \* demand side management ( temporary closure or delayed operation not absolutely necessary consumers ) \* storage , for example by Pumpspeicherkraftwerke and Druckluftspeicherkraftwerk or by storage after transformation as Windgas ( 5 ) \* interpretation of windmills on a higher Kapazitätsfaktor by increasing the Rotorfläche with existing Nennleistung \* increase the installed Nennleistung and temporary closure in Leistungsüberschuss In many , mostly dieselgestützten Inselnetzen with Windstromeinspeisung ( Australia , Antarctic , Falklands , Bonaire ) , in addition to the demand side management will also batteries and partly also Schwungradspeicher to briefly - and medium term - and Netzstabilisierung optimierung inserted , with relatively poor Wirkungsgrade for economic reasons ( reduction of the very expensive Dieselstromanteils ) can be accepted . 
storing were by Wasserstoffelektrolyse - and incineration and Schwungradspeicher was in a Modellprojekt Utsira tested on the Norwegian island . 
the level of vorzuhaltenden Reserveleistung ( Regelenergie ) is also significantly from the Vorhersagegenauigkeit of the wind , the Regelungsfähigkeit of the network , as well as the time course of electricity consumption . 
a marked reduction of the need for Regelenergie arises from combination of wind farms in various locations , since the fluctuations of the local winds partially ausmitteln each other . 
( Another information in Article Windenergieanlage . ) 
the elderly drehzahlstarre wind farms with Asynchrongeneratoren , which , in the early stages of the Windenergienutzung used , have partly qualities that in a strong development problems in the network can cause ; this relates mainly to the sog . 
Blindstrom . 
The can be remedied by Blindstromkompensation ; modern drehzahlvariable plants with electronic Stromumrichter can already Blindstromanteil after the requirements of the network of disposable counteract Spannungsschwankungen hire and also , so that they can contribute to even Netzstabilisierung . 
modernity wind farms have a brief energy Amortisationszeit of only a few months ago . 
( 6 ) 
