winds both by thermal effects arise with the different sun and by the Erdrotation . 
. local influences can create local winds bzw . 
by existing Landschaftselemente there , depending on the amount on the ground , strengthen or weaken : water , fields , forests , or as a different Rauigkeiten are supposed to be building the friction of air of the earth ' s surface describes . 
in too Bergformationen and other local manifestations ( for example , cities ) it can come to Windströmungen . 
An Verengungen or other obstacles , there may be nozzle - or Kapeffekten . 
proportion sun ( Bearbeiten ) stretches of water will warm only very slowly , with the exception of moorigem ` black ' water or shallow waters . 
Due to the various Wärmekapazitäten of water and land is warming the country during the day faster than the water , and it is blowing through the nascent Druckunterschiede tageszeitlich a different wehender wind between water and land ( `` Seewind '' ) . 
Zusätzlich can the wind is blowing through the water almost unchecked , so that it particularly in coastal areas to regular and strong winds . 
Anders as often adopted is not warmed up air or hardly , if they will be permeated by the sun . 
instead , the rays of warming of the objects bzw . 
land they encounter ; this in turn give warm Wärmestrahlung and thus the Luftschicht on them . 
The solar energy also exude unevenly around the earth ' s surface ( PO ’ s ) , it is changing : \* the corner , in which they appear on the surface - regarding situation ( the solar Einstrahlung in Äquatornähe greater than to the Poles ) and topography ( Bergwind-System ) . 
\* the clarity of air ( Wolkenanteil , air pollution , hochgewirbelten dust , etc . ) . thus warm the rays of the water - and bzw land areas . 
the atmosphere different . 
one side of the Earth , which is the sun Nachtseite away . 
the emerging temperature - and thus also Druckunterschiede consider the air in movement . 
proportion rotation ( Bearbeiten ) By the resulting from the rotation of the earth Corioliskraft flock air between Long - and Tiefdruckgebieten not on the shortest route but form in the north - and the southern hemisphere eddy Drehrichtung with each other . 
The Schiefstellung Rotationsachse at the level of the Earth , which the Erdbahn through the Umkreisen forms the sun , ( ekliptikale level ) leads to jahreszeitlichen Luftströmungen . 
