a wind farm be a group of wind turbin in the same location use for production of electricity . a large wind farm may consist of several hundr individual wind turbin , and cov an extend area of hundred of square mil , but the land between the turbin may be use for agricultural or other purpose . a wind farm may also be locate offshore . 
almost all large wind turbin have the same design -- a horizontal axi wind turbine have an upwind rotor with three blad , attach to a nacelle on top of a tall tubular tow . in a wind farm , individual turbin be interconnect with a medium voltage -LRB- often 34.5 kv -RRB- , pow collection system and communication network . at a substation , thi medium-voltage electric current be increase in voltage with a transform for connection to the high voltage electric pow transmission system . 
many of the large operational onshore wind farm be locate in the u . a of novemb 2010 , the Roscoe wind farm be the large onshore wind farm in the world at 781.5 MW , follow by the horse hollow wind energy center -LRB- 735.5 MW -RRB- . a of novemb 2010 , the Thanet wind farm in the uk be the large offshore wind farm in the world at 300 MW , follow by horn rev ii -LRB- 209 MW -RRB- in denmark . 
there be many large wind farm under construction include ; The london array -LRB- offshore -RRB- -LRB- 1000 MW -RRB- , bard offshore 1 -LRB- 400 MW -RRB- , Sheringham shoal offshore wind farm -LRB- 317 MW -RRB- , linc wind farm -LRB- offshore , -LRB- 270 MW -RRB- shepherd flat wind farm -LRB- 845 MW -RRB- , clyde wind farm -LRB- 548 MW -RRB- , great Gabbard wind farm -LRB- 500 MW -RRB- , macarthur wind farm -LRB- 420 MW -RRB- , shepherd flat wind farm -LRB- 845 MW -RRB- , low snake riv wind project -LRB- 343 MW -RRB- and Walney wind farm -LRB- 367 MW -RRB- . 
-LRB- edit -RRB- feed into grid 
induction generator , often use for wind pow , require reactive pow for excitation so substation use in wind-pow collection system include substantial capacitor bank for pow factor correction . different type of wind turbine generator behave differently dur transmission grid disturbanc , so extensive model of the dynamic electromechanical characteristic of a new wind farm be require by transmission system operator to ensure predictable stable behavior dur system fault -LRB- see : low voltage ride through -RRB- . in particular , induction generator can not support the system voltage dur fault , unlike steam or hydro turbine-driven synchronou generator . doubly fed machine generally have more desirable properti for grid interconnection . -LRB- citation need -RRB- transmission system operator will supply a wind farm develop with a grid code to specify the requirement for interconnection to the transmission grid . thi will include pow factor , constancy of frequency and dynamic behavior of the wind farm turbin dur a system fault . -LRB- 29 -RRB- -LRB- 30 -RRB- 
