wind pow be the conversion of wind energy into a useful form of energy , such a use : wind turbin to make electricity , windmill for mechanical pow , windpump for wat pump or drainage , or sail to propel ship . 
a large wind farm may consist of several hundr individual wind turbin which be connect to the electric pow transmission network . offshore wind farm can harness more frequent and powerful wind than be available to land-bas installation and have les visual impact on the landscape but construction cost be considerably high . small onshore wind faciliti be use to provide electricity to isolate location and utility company increasingly buy back surplu electricity produce by small domestic wind turbin . -LRB- 1 -RRB- 
Although very consistent from year to year , wind pow ha significant variation over short timescal . The intermittency of wind seldom create problem when use to supply up to 20 % of total electricity demand , but a the proportion increase , a need to upgrade the grid , and a lower ability to supplant conventional production can occur . pow management techniqu such a have exces capacity storage , dispatchable back supply -LRB- usually natural gas -RRB- , storage such a pumped-storage hydroelectricity , export and import pow to neighbor area or reduce demand when wind production be low , can greatly mitigate these problem . -LRB- 2 -RRB- -LRB- 3 -RRB- -LRB- 4 -RRB- 
wind pow , a an alternative to fossil fuel , be plentiful , renewable , widely distribute , clean , produce no greenhouse gas emission dur operation and us little land . -LRB- 5 -RRB- any effect on the environment be generally les problematic than those from other pow source . a of 2010 wind energy production be over 2.5 % of worldwide pow , grow at more than 25 % p annum . The overall cost p unit of energy produce be similar to the cost for new coal and natural gas installation . -LRB- 6 -RRB- Although wind pow be a popular form of energy generation , the construction of wind farm be not universally welcome 
