wind be the movement of air acros the surface of the earth , from area of high pressure to area of low pressure . -LRB- 26 -RRB- The surface of the earth be heat unevenly by the sun , depend on factor such a the angle of incidence of the sun ' ray at the surface -LRB- which differ with latitude and time of day -RRB- and wheth the land be open or cover with vegetation . also , large body of wat , such a the ocean , heat up and cool down slow than the land . The heat energy absorb at the earth ' surface be transfer to the air directly above it and , a warm air be les dense than cool air , it rise above the cool air to form area of high pressure and thu pressure differential . The rotation of the earth drag the atmosphere around with it cause turbulence . These effect combine to cause a constantly vary pattern of wind acros the surface of the earth . -LRB- 26 -RRB- 
The total amount of economically extractable pow available from the wind be considerably more than present human pow use from all source . -LRB- 27 -RRB- Axel Kleidon of the max planck institute in germany , carry out a `` top down '' calculation on how much wind energy there be , start with the incom solar radiation that drive the wind by create temperature differenc in the atmosphere . he conclude that somewhere between 18 TW and 68 TW could be extract . -LRB- 28 -RRB- Cristina archer and mark Z. Jacobson present a `` bottom-up '' estimate , which unlike Kleidon ' be base on actual measurement of wind speed , and find that there be 1700 TW of wind pow at an altitude of 100 metr over land and sea . Of thi , `` between 72 and 170 TW could be extract in a practical and cost-competitive mann '' . -LRB- 28 -RRB- 
-LRB- edit -RRB- distribution of wind speed 
distribution of wind speed -LRB- red -RRB- and energy -LRB- blue -RRB- for all of 2002 at the lee ranch facility in colorado . The histogram show measure data , while the curve be the rayleigh model distribution for the same average wind speed . 
The strength of wind vary , and an average value for a give location do not alone indicate the amount of energy a wind turbine could produce there . To asses the frequency of wind speed at a particular location , a probability distribution function be often fit to the observe data . different location will have different wind speed distribution . The Weibull model closely mirror the actual distribution of hourly wind speed at many location . The Weibull factor be often close to 2 and therefore a rayleigh distribution can be use a a les accurate , but simple model . 
