jump to : navigation , search 
charl brush ' windmill of 1888 , use for generate electricity . 
wind turbin 
history 
design 
manufacturer 
unconventional 
wind pow ha be use a long a human have put sail into the wind . For more than two millennium wind-power machine have grind grain and pump wat . wind pow be widely available and not confine to the bank of fast-flow stream , or late , require source of fuel . wind-power pump drain the polder of the netherland , and in arid region such a the american mid-w or the australian outback , wind pump provide wat for live stock and steam engin . 
With the development of electric pow , wind pow find new application in light building remote from centrally-generat pow . throughout the 20th century parallel path develop distribute small wind plant suitable for farm or residenc , and large utility-scale wind generator that could be connect to electricity grid for remote use of pow . today wind power generator operate in every size range between tiny plant for battery charge at isolate residenc , up to near-gigawatt size offshore wind farm that provide electricity to national electrical network . 
The first windmill in europe appear in source date to the twelfth century . These early european windmill be sink post mill . The early certain reference to a windmill date from 1185 , in Weedley , yorkshire , although a number of early but les certainly date twelfth century european source refer to windmill have also be adduce . -LRB- 8 -RRB- while it be sometim argue that crusader may have be inspire by windmill in the middle east , thi be unlikely since the european vertical windmill be of significantly different design than the horizontal windmill of afghanistan . Lynn white jr. , a specialist in medieval european technology , assert that the european windmill be an `` independent invention ; '' he argue that it be unlikely that the Afghanistan-style horizontal windmill have spread a far west a the levant dur the crusad period . -LRB- 8 -RRB- in medieval england right to waterpow sit be often confine to nobility and clergy , so wind pow be an important resource to a new middle class . -LRB- 8 -RRB- in addition , windmill , unlike wat mill , be not render inoperable by the freeze of wat in the wint . 
