application -LRB- Bearbeiten -RRB- Windmühle Kite-Surfen besid to history : history of Windenergienutzung The wind will for thousand of people for it use . 
it be the first to use of the wind to transport with Segelschiffen -LRB- see also : sail -RRB- or smoke , on the other hand , the wind pow to perform mechanical work with the help of windmill and wat pump use . 
after the discovery of the electricity and the invention of generator be the idea of the use of wind pow for electricity generation close . 
Anfänglich be the concept of windmill only c onvention work and instead of the implementation of the kinetischen energy of the wind in mechanical energy be on a generator of electrical energy produce . 
With the development of Strömungsmechanik be also the Aufbauten and flügelforman specialise . 
since the oil cris in the 1970 , the world will be strengthen for alternativ to produce energy research and so that ha also be promote the development of modern windmill . 
-LRB- 2 -RRB- electricity production -LRB- Bearbeiten -RRB- general -LRB- Bearbeiten -RRB- wind farm in denmark modernity windmill in bavaria besid → : windmill and windfarm The wind blow because of the sun daytime mostly strong than at night and thu fit in a natural way the day high energy need . 
in a similar way be often the production in the wint of great than in the summ of what be also favourable . 
can wind farm in all climat , at sea and in all landforman -LRB- coast , interior , mountain -RRB- to generate electricity use . 
2009 researcher identify the Harvard-Universität under conservative assumption the global Windenergiepotential and come to the conclusion that there be simply no long apposite : far exceed the : the then need of electrical energy at the 40-fache , the total 5-fache about thi . 
-LRB- 3 -RRB- a study of the max-planck-institut for Biogeochemie to the associate Klimafolgen reveal that some of the simply no long apposite : can be remove from the wind , without a significant Klimabeeinflussung . 
-LRB- 4 -RRB- due to the Unstetigkeit of the wind can the with wind farm electrical energy produce only in conjunction with other energy source or with storage -LRB- windga -RRB- for a continuou source actually be use . 
-LRB- Siehe also Regelenergie -RRB- by forecast of supply and exchange within and between the transmission network -LRB- Regelzonen -RRB- , the erratic electricity produce in cooperation with other pow station such a the normal Verbrauchsschwankungen be compensate . 
For germany be one accord to a study of the DENA currently from 20 to 25 % maximum share the only moderate expansion of network infrastructure . 
another possibiliti , in future the Windstrompenetration on such a value , to increase , be : \* strengthen and Vermaschung of hochspannungsübertragungsnetz with neighbour Regelzonen on moderate development also \* demand side management -LRB- temporary closure or delay operation not absolutely necessary consumer -RRB- \* storage , for example by Pumpspeicherkraftwerke and Druckluftspeicherkraftwerk or by storage after transformation a windga -LRB- 5 -RRB- \* interpretation of windmill on a high Kapazitätsfaktor by increase the Rotorfläche with exist Nennleistung \* increase the instal Nennleistung and temporary closure in leistungsüberschus in many , mostly dieselgestützten Inselnetzen with Windstromeinspeisung -LRB- australia , antarctic , falkland , bonaire -RRB- , in addition to the demand side management will also batteri and partly also schwungradspeich to briefly - and medium term - and Netzstabilisierung optimierung insert , with relatively poor Wirkungsgrade for economic reason -LRB- reduction of the very expensive dieselstromanteil -RRB- can be accept . 
store be by Wasserstoffelektrolyse - and incineration and schwungradspeich be in a Modellprojekt Utsira test on the norwegian island . 
the level of vorzuhaltenden Reserveleistung -LRB- Regelenergie -RRB- be also significantly from the Vorhersagegenauigkeit of the wind , the Regelungsfähigkeit of the network , a well a the time course of electricity consumption . 
a mark reduction of the need for Regelenergie aris from combination of wind farm in variou location , since the fluctuation of the local wind partially ausmitteln each other . 
-LRB- another information in article Windenergieanlage . -RRB- 
the elderly drehzahlstarre wind farm with Asynchrongeneratoren , which , in the early stag of the Windenergienutzung use , have partly qualiti that in a strong development problem in the network can cause ; thi relate mainly to the sog . 
Blindstrom . 
The can be remedi by Blindstromkompensation ; modern drehzahlvariable plant with electronic stromumricht can already Blindstromanteil after the requirement of the network of disposable counteract Spannungsschwankungen hire and also , so that they can contribute to even Netzstabilisierung . 
modernity wind farm have a brief energy Amortisationszeit of only a few month ago . 
-LRB- 6 -RRB- 
