one windfarm be a spatial accumulation of wind farm -LRB- WEA -RRB- . 
he be create by the increase in draw up these faciliti in windreichen region . 
wind farm can divide in the follow way : ` \* Gewachsene `` wind farm be construct by the spatial proximity successively installation have emerge . 
\* Geplante wind farm be gathering of installation of a planer manufactur or operator , which , in the context of a unsuitable bzw build . 
be plan . 
thi also include subsequent enlargement with a . 
there be other To \* officially designate land for wind farm . 
the aim be in the process of thi in certain region , in ord to concentrate the r of Landschaftsbild break . 
i have receive example be so far -LRB- 2011 -RRB- to wind pow 0.8 % of the surface area of Schleswig-Holstein approve ; the government want to extend it to at least 1.5 % . 
-LRB- 1 -RRB- to wind farm inland can , on the coast or a considerable distance from the coast at sea -LRB- offshore -RRB- be build . 
you can only three , but also well over a hundr wind farm and few MW cov up many hundred of MW Einspeiseleistung . 
at wind farm be often also Windmessmasten eith temporarily in advance of the establishment of forecast of output permanently , or to serve the purpose of meteorological research be build . 
approval procedur -LRB- Bearbeiten -RRB- The Bundesverwaltungsgericht -LRB- BVerwG -RRB- ha in june 2004 decide that in germany genehmigungsrechtlich an accumulation of at least three wind farm than windfarm apply ` space , if they be assign to each other so that their Einwirkungsbereiche overlap , or at least touch `` -LRB- 2 -RRB- . 
these must then after the enhance Bundes-Immissionsschutzgesetz -LRB- BImSchG -RRB- be approve dur otherwise , there be only one Baugenehmigungspflicht . 
it be irrelevant wheth the under review installation several operator will be assign . 
i also must also individual or ` only two `` installation after the BImSchG be approve if a plant a total of more than 50 metr achieve . 
in Nordrhein-Westfalen increase the schwarz-gelbe government in 2005 the distance from for new bauende wind farm on to the next building of 500 metr to 1,500 metr -LRB- 3 -RRB- . 
let bring them the construction of new installation almost to a standstill -LRB- 4 -RRB- . 
in july 2011 begin loosen the rot-grüne government with a new ` windenergieerlas ' provision which until then have inhibit the development of wind energy -LRB- 5 -RRB- . 
finance -LRB- Bearbeiten -RRB- wind farm be initially eith by individual large investor finance or on a project fund , for example in the form of the creation of a coherent fund . 
in a close fund several investor to bring the equity capital , which be supplement by a Bank-Darlehen -LRB- 6 -RRB- . 
Since 2005 be also other form , such a sublease or the issue of Genussscheinen possible . 
Daneben have increasingly bürgerwindpark establish , for example in the legal form a cooperative society , a an alternative source of finance . 
here , the people who suff the damage by wind farm , the profit and only a low economic risk . 
For the finance of large offshore-windpark with a volume of currently -LRB- may 2011 -RRB- up to over EUR 1 billion will come only international corporation or consortium of such group in question . 
plan -LRB- Bearbeiten -RRB- in view of investor , it be an advantage that the plan from a hand : there can be no need for any annex an own approval procedur be carry out . 
the argument for the plan of wind farm be a much more complicate procedure -LRB- see the top -RRB- and expertise require . 
For the mutual influence , the need to minimize Rotoren order with a certain distance from each other . 
thi be largely dependent on the Anlagengröße and the prevail wind . 
a Faustformel for wind farm on the coast apply in Hauptwindrichtung of fivefold in Nebenwindrichtung the triple rotordurchmess a a minimum distance . 
. howev be in large wind farm that Turbulenzverhalten of Rotoren call multifraktal way in the position of dependent on what significant deviation from the Kolmogoroff ' chen Turbulenztheorie for individual Rotoren make -LRB- 7 -RRB- . 
when only ca . 
the individual windmill 15-fachen Rotorabstand achieve a wind farm the optimum efficiency . 
-LRB- 8 -RRB- The Parkleistung be therefore alway low than the sum of the service -LRB- denomination -RRB- of the individual Park-Komponenten . 
in the past , thi ` Windpark-Effekt `` in many publication , up to in Datenblättern to individual project , not take into account . 
will thi too high value also indicate in prospectus , so it can to legal consequenc for the responsible individual -LRB- Prospekthaftung -RRB- . 
establishment -LRB- Bearbeiten -RRB- establishment of windmill in the erkelenz Börde in the establishment of plan wind farm in a context of investor ha the advantage that the whole infrastructure can be concentrate . 
crane and Zuwegung plant that can be use for several installation . 
for example , the big Raupenkräne howev must not be dispose of a Windenergieanlage , in ord to go on to the next . 
come it in the establishment of a plant to delay , in thi time of a different plant be work . 
in wind farm must be equip with a Hinderniskennzeichnung plant . 
follow the count color mark the Rotorblatt-Spitzen and the Befeuerung in poor sight . 
within of wind farm in new theme park bzw Blitzen . 
Blinken of light bulb on the DCF77-Zeitsignal synchronise . 
thi will also reject in old park upgrade . 
operation -LRB- Bearbeiten -RRB- For the stromnetzbetreib -LRB- energy supplier -RRB- appear all wind farm of wind farm a a single plant ; thu easy and cheap , for example , the Einspeisungsabrechnung for the operator of wind farm . 
the regulation of wind farm be central to the whole windfarm . 
each plant ha also ha it own management . 
since a solid windfarm sometim from different type of wind farm , compose of the different requirement for the wind speed up because of the Windverhältnisse , it can happen that individual windmill will be shut down . 
wind turbin can adversely affect each other by , among certain Windrichtungen mutually aerodynamisch ` abschatten `` -LRB- coattail -RRB- . 
it can then be sensible to switch off individual installation . 
the Anlagen-Wartung too focus on several plant can be carry out . 
great Fahrtstrecken and - zeiten for the technician . 
The experience show that the long life cycle of Wartungstechnikern also increase the likelihood that a technician at a local Anlagenstörung -LRB- in windfarm -RRB- . 
The reaction time so be shorten . 
