wind both by thermal effect arise with the different sun and by the Erdrotation . 
. local influence can create local wind bzw . 
by exist Landschaftselemente there , depend on the amount on the grind , strengthen or weaken : wat , field , forest , or a a different Rauigkeiten be suppose to be build the friction of air of the earth '  surface describe . 
in too Bergformationen and other local manifestation -LRB- for example , citi -RRB- it can come to Windströmungen . 
an Verengungen or other obstacl , there may be nozzle - or Kapeffekten . 
proportion sun -LRB- Bearbeiten -RRB- stretch of wat will warm only very slowly , with the exception of moorigem ` black ' wat or shallow water . 
due to the variou Wärmekapazitäten of wat and land be warm the country dur the day fast than the wat , and it be blow through the nascent Druckunterschiede tageszeitlich a different wehend wind between wat and land -LRB- `` Seewind '' -RRB- . 
Zusätzlich can the wind be blow through the wat almost uncheck , so that it particularly in coastal area to regular and strong wind . 
ander a often adopt be not warm up air or hardly , if they will be permeate by the sun . 
instead , the ray of warm of the object bzw . 
land they encount ; thi in turn give warm Wärmestrahlung and thu the Luftschicht on them . 
The solar energy also exude unevenly around the earth '  surface -LRB- po '  -RRB- , it be change : \* the corn , in which they appear on the surface - regard situation -LRB- the solar Einstrahlung in Äquatornähe great than to the pole -RRB- and topography -LRB- Bergwind-System -RRB- . 
\* the clarity of air -LRB- Wolkenanteil , air pollution , hochgewirbelten dust , etc . -RRB- . thu warm the ray of the wat - and bzw land area . 
the atmosphere different . 
one side of the earth , which be the sun Nachtseite away . 
the emerge temperature - and thu also Druckunterschiede consid the air in movement . 
proportion rotation -LRB- Bearbeiten -RRB- by the result from the rotation of the earth Corioliskraft flock air between long - and Tiefdruckgebieten not on the short route but form in the north - and the southern hemisphere eddy Drehrichtung with each other . 
The Schiefstellung Rotationsachse at the level of the earth , which the Erdbahn through the Umkreisen form the sun , -LRB- ekliptikale level -RRB- lead to jahreszeitlichen Luftströmungen . 
